docs: Added guide to migrate to Ubuntu 24.04 (#409)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray: migration/ubuntu/20.04-to-22.04-openstack.md

# Migrate to Ubuntu 24.04 on Openstack

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This migration assumes that the environment is running on an Openstack environment.

> > This mainly applies to the terraform details, so you should be able to follow along with the Kubespray steps even if you're not running on an Openstack environment.

Reviewer: It "mainly" applies to the terraform details, but do we know what else it applies to? It seems like it would be good to test doing it on non-openstack environments as well (doesn't have to be as part of this task).

Author: Yea, that might be true. Maybe we should do it on our long running clusters? That would include upcloud atleast if SME have time to do it

> You can check to see what `supplementary_addresses_in_ssl_keys` is currently pointing to, and if it's not the IPs of the control plane nodes then this can be left alone.

## Execute

These steps will cause disruptions in the cluster.

### Replace control plane nodes

- Add new control plane nodes using Kubespray:

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_KUBESPRAY_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s-kubespray apply <sc|wc> --limit=etcd,kube_control_plane -b -e=ignore_assert_errors=true --skip-tags=multus
  popd
  ```

- Update control plane proxy using Kubespray:

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_KUBESPRAY_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s-kubespray apply <sc|wc> --tags=nginx -b
  popd
  ```

- Update the NetworkPolicies:

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_APPS_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s update-ips <sc|wc> apply

  ck8s ops helmfile <sc|wc> -l app=netpol -i apply
  popd
  ```

- Reorder inventory so the new control plane nodes are first in each category they occur in
- Set the public IP of the first new control plane node into group vars under the key `kube_oidc_apiserver_endpoint`

> > [!NOTE]
> > This is not needed if it's not pointing to an old control plane node directly.
> > Like if it's pointing to a loadbalancer or DNS or similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
> Changing `kube_oidc_apiserver_endpoint` is not needed if it's not pointing to an old control plane node directly.
> Like if it's pointing to a loadbalancer or DNS or similar.
```

Just to avoid confusion, I think it would be nice if these !NOTEs were more specific in what they are referring to.

Same applies to the other !NOTEs in the document.

Author: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/409/commits/5feea8586cdaf1dab62242923751189edbce4293

- Apply kubespray:

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_KUBESPRAY_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s-kubespray apply <sc|wc> --tags=master,nginx -b
  popd
  ```

- Update the NetworkPolicies:

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_APPS_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s update-ips <sc|wc> apply

  ck8s ops helmfile <sc|wc> -l app=netpol -i apply
  popd
  ```

### Replace worker nodes

- Add a new worker node that doesn't specify `image_id` (To use the new image)
- Verify by running `terraform plan` and make sure there's a new node added with the correct image
- Add the rest of the new worker nodes
- Run `terraform apply` to add all the new nodes
- Add all the new worker nodes

  ```bash
  pushd "${CK8S_KUBESPRAY_REPOSITORY_PATH}"
  ck8s-kubespray run-playbook <sc|wc> facts.yml
  ck8s-kubespray run-playbook <sc|wc> scale.yml -b --limit=<new-node1>,<new-node2>,...
  popd
  ```

- Drain the old nodes and make sure everything starts up properly

> [!CAUTION]
> If you are using applications that allowlist the old nodes, please update that list to also include the new nodes before draining the old ones.

  ```bash
  kubectl drain <old-node1>
  kubectl drain <old-node2>

>   ...

Reviewer 2: If this is meant to drain the nodes one at a time, then could you add a step here to first cordon all old nodes that will be removed? That way you don't have pods getting drained from one old node to another old node, just to get drained again later.

Author: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/409/commits/5feea8586cdaf1dab62242923751189edbce4293
